Conditional aggregation functions are
statistical functions that combine aggregation with logical conditions.
They operate across a group of data with some logical conditions.
We'll focus on two of these: COUNTIF and SUMIF.
Let's say, you have a baseball data set and that your analysis question is,
how many pitchers are there on the roster?
We could filter the data by pitcher and count the number of
lines showing or we could just use a formula.
With COUNTIF, we can get this information with a single function: equal, COUNTIF,
parentheses, then the range we want to count over,
which is the whole column of positions, then the criterion.
The criterion can be a text string or a number or an expression.
In this case, we want the text string pitcher.
So, it goes in double quotes because it's text.
And there we have our answer.
If we wanted to count the number of salaries greater than 10 million,
we would need an expression with the comparison operator greater than 10 million.
An expression must also be in double quotes.
And there we have our answer.
SUMIF works similarly but adds values if the criteria is true rather than counting them.
If we changed the last example from COUNTIF to SUMIF,
we get a sum of all the salaries greater than 10 million,
which will be a pretty big number.